In this video we’re going to see how you
can go about creating your own custom pipes.
To create a custom pipe there are 3 main steps.
First we create our pipe file and define what
our custom pipe should do.
Second, we import our pipe file into our appModule
file and it to our list of declarations.
Third, we use our custom pipe name inside
of our HTML file.
I’m going to first walk you through this
in our slides and then we’ll add a new pipe
to our application.
The first thing is to create a new file.
The file name should begin with what the pipe
does followed by the keyword pipe.
This file will contain a Decorator called
Pipe that will hold the name of our new pipe.
This name property represents our pipe reference
for use inside of our HTML file.
Next, we need import from angular core PipeTransform
and Pipe.
And now we can export a new class creating
a name that makes sense, the purpose of this
pipe is going to be to limit the amount of
characters, so we’ll name it TruncatePipe.
Then we say implements PipeTransform.
Implements is a keyword that allows us to
use methods and properties inside of PipeTransform.
So inside of PipeTransform there is a method
called transform and this is the method that
we’ll use in order to create our new custom
pipe.
The transform method takes 2 parameters.
The first parameter is the value or the data
we want to change.
Depending on the developer you might see this
parameter called input, or value.
And the 2nd parameter is an optional string
of arguments that’s used to alter the way
our data is displayed.
And inside our method is where we put our
logic – which is usually going to be returning
our manipulated data.
Once our pipe is built, we need it to add
it as an import to our AppModule file and
include it in list of declarations like this.
Then we’re able to use our custom pipe inside
the HTML file the same way we use builtin
pipes.
So now that you know what’s involved in
creating a pipe, lets add a new custom pipe
into our application.
I’m going to add our custom pipe to the
shared folder since we may want to reuse this
pipe in multiple components.
And I’ll create a new folder here called
pipes.
Then I’ll go into this folder and add a
new file named truncate.pipe.ts.
Lets open up that file and first thing we’ll
do is add a Pipe decorator and name our pipe
limitChar.
This pipe is going to limit the amount of
characters shown in a book description.
The next thing we do is import pipe and pipeTransform
from angular core.
Now lets create our pipe class.
We’ll name our pipe TruncatePipe and we’re
using PipeTransform methods so we need to
implement it.
Then inside the body of the class we’ll
use the transform method.
The first parameter references the data that
currently exists.
I call this input and we expect to get a string.
The second parameter is optional and I’m
going to name this parameter limit which is
a number.
So this represents the maximum number of characters
to be displayed in the view.
And we’ll be setting that max number in
the view right next to our pipe.
And this is the logic – we’re using a
ternary operator to say if the input length
is greater then our limit then cut off those
characters at the limit an add an ellipses.
Otherwise, display the input.
In order to use our custom pipe anywhere inside
of our application, we need to make sure its
added to our AppModule file.
So opening up that file, we’ll first import
our PipeTransform file and then add it to
our declarations array.
And that’s it, our pipe is now ready to
be used.
So we’ll open up the corresponding bookslist
HTML file.
I’ll add an area here for the description
right below the author.
Then I’ll add my new limitChar pipe.
And here is where I’ll specify the limit
of string characters I want to display in
my view.
I’ll add a colon and then my limit inside
of quotation marks.
This can be whatever you decide – and for
demonstration purposes I’ll say 10.
I’ll save everything and flip over to my
app.
And right here you can see my pipe is working
cutting off my description after 10 characters
and adding the ellipses.